guide/chapter0.md, before:

---
layout: guide
navgroup: guide
group: guidechapter
section: I. Theory
title: 0. Preface
excerpt: "xx"
abstract: "Field Guide"
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# 1.	Preface
Memory's vision of disasters tends to myopia. We remember what to do to plan for events that happen frequently with relatively low intensity (seasonal flooding). We have no record of the impact of events that happened 500 or 5000 years ago and therefore have little basis to plan on how to mitigate high-impact events that which might happen in the lifetimes of our children. 

At the same time, the structure of risk is changing. While the world is becoming more interconnected and interdependent, new challenges are making it less likely that received wisdom will prudently inform decisions about the present and future (Suarez, 2013). From urbanization and climate change to population growth and technology, emerging risks are altering traditional approaches to disaster risk management. Among the large cities exposed to cyclones and earthquakes, the population will double from 2000 to 2050 (0.68 billion to 1.5 billion) (NHUD, 2012). At the same time, these cities will create more concrete and asphalt--making them less permeable and more liable to flood. Models of climate change estimate that damage from cyclones will increase 50-125% over the 21st century. Such patterns of natural hazards may rendering familiar adaptation techniques obsolete. 

<!-- OpenDRI as shared problem in risk management -->

## Understanding New Risks Requires New Data
Within this changing context, OpenDRI started from a shared problem: how to help people in vulnerable regions better understand the historic and changing risks they face from natural hazards. It is rare for the leaders in these communities to have the data they need to see the invisible: the exposure of their built environment to hazards, the vulnerability of those structures to particular stresses that these hazards may generate, and the impact that the failure of this infrastructure will have on residents of disaster zones and their ways of life. 

Without data, vulnerable peoples cannot make different choices. They cannot prepare for expected failures or make reasonable (often low-cost) investments in mitigating risks. They cannot pass building codes and zoning restrictions that create resilience in the face of expected adversity. They cannot compare their historical understandings of a risk (inherited with the wisdom of their society) with new understandings of a dynamic planet, where climate risks are changing historical understandings and opening societies to hazards that they have not previously faced.

## Data is not enough
That said, having data is not enough to create changes to behavior. To alter mental model of the risks across a population, the data needs to be available to everyone. It needs to be open--**legally open**, in terms of intellectual property licenses that permit it to be reused, repurposes, and redistributed without cost, as well as **technically open**, so that any software can open it, manipulate it, and save new analyses in open formats. More importantly, the data needs to be collected, analyzed, and curated by the people in the place facing the risks. Only through this process of having the data be available to all and curated by those who are potentially affected can behavior fully change.

## Open Data for Resilience: Building Open Data Ecosystems around Risk Management
Open Data for Resilience is a partnership of governments and international institutions that are building a deeper understanding of risk by sharing information about their exposure, vulnerabilities, and risk models.  This guide outlines practices that an ecosystem of peers is developing. All of the partners to this guide are working to build better data around the disaster risk management (DRM) cycle. Science agencies are developing better models of earthquakes, floods, droughts, tsunamis, volcanoes, and other hazards. Governments are cataloguing the exposure of their built environments to those hazards, at the same time that they are exploring the vulnerability of their populations to the direct effects of hazards and the indirect effects of changes to the built and social environments. And donors are looking at how best to help their clients target investments. 

## Who is the Guide for?
This guide is for those who wish to apply the open scientific method to developed a deeper understanding of the shared challenges of targeting investments in disaster risk management. It is aimed as much to government officials and community leaders as it is to staff of international organizations.

## Goals of the Guide
This guide intends to:

1.	Outline disaster risk management activities that have harnessed open data
2.	Explore shared challenges in using open data to increase resilience of societies who are facing high risks from natural hazards
3.	Create the first draft of a growing consensus around how to implement open data initiatives inside of client governments
4.	Provide a map of the work processes, partnerships, tools, and practices around OpenDRI
5.	Collate shared documents that can be used as templates for future implementations of OpenDRI.

## A Note on Style of this Guide
The guide is written in short snippets. This approach allows for several dynamics:

1. Easy Reading
2. Simplified Translation
3. Multiple Layouts: A3, A4, A5, and web.
4. Easy reference in the form of a growing body of knowledge

## Collective Intelligence around Open for Resilience
The intention of this guide is to make the work itself a collective effort. It is seeded from the experience of a handful of partners, and given as a gift to the communities that are working in open data. Curators will continue to steward the content, ensuring that added knowledge reflects the community's shared experiences.

Commit message:

new structure for guide practice chapters, lots of new prose

guide/chapter0.md, after:

---
layout: guide
navgroup: guide
group: guidechapter
section: I. Theory
title: 0. Preface
excerpt: "xx"
abstract: "Field Guide"
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<!-- warning/disclaimer -->
<div class="message-box short error">
<p><strong>NOTE</strong>: This document is a very early sketch by a consultant/writer, placed online for collaborative writing. In no way should this document be viewed as a reflection of the overall team's sense of OpenDRI processes. DO NOT USE for operations.</p>
</div>

# 1.	Preface
In the year 869, the residents of Miyato-jima (Japan) felt a strong earthquake and many fled to the top of a hill, knowing that a tsunami might soon follow. They watched in horror as the first wave from the sea combined with a second wave that came over the rice paddies, washing over the hill and pulling the helpless villagers out to sea. Those that survived constructed a monument on the hill, telling the story of how two tsunami waves fused together. For 1142 years, the shrine served as a warning future generations not to flee to the top of that particular hill. When the 11 March 2011 earthquake struck off the coast of Sendai, residents of Miyato-jima remembered the myth and fled further inland, where they watched two tsunami waves crash over the shrine. (ref LATimes, [Japan's 1,000-year-old warning] (http://articles.latimes.com/2012/mar/11/opinion/la-oe-holguin-veras-tsunami-20120311). 

This story is an outlier--an example of collective memory reaching across 50 generations. In contrast, humans tend to remember how to plan for events that happen frequently with relatively low intensity, like seasonal flooding. Beyond isolated examples like the Miyato-jima shrine, there exists no catalogue of ancient disasters that provides sufficient data to model the periodicity or impact of infrequent events. 

There are many cycles in deep history which are invisible to science, because many powerful cycles of nature are not measured in years but millennia. Volcanos may erupt in 500, 1000, or 10,000 year cycles. Earthquakes may have similar periodicities. Climate change is unfolding at an accelerating pace--a rate of change that will make prediction always behind. 

At the same time, the structure of risk is changing. While the world is becoming more interconnected and interdependent, new challenges are making it less likely that received wisdom will prudently inform decisions about the present and future (Suarez, 2013). From urbanization and climate change to population growth and technology, emerging risks are altering traditional approaches to disaster risk management. Among the large cities exposed to cyclones and earthquakes, the population will double from 2000 to 2050 (0.68 billion to 1.5 billion) (NHUD, 2012). At the same time, these cities will create more concrete and asphalt--making them less permeable and more liable to flood. Models of climate change estimate that damage from cyclones will increase 50-125% over the 21st century. Such patterns of natural hazards may rendering familiar adaptation techniques obsolete. 


<!-- OpenDRI as shared problem in risk management -->

## Understanding New Risks Requires New Data
Within this changing context, OpenDRI started from a shared problem: how to help people in vulnerable regions better understand the historic and changing risks they face from natural hazards. It is rare for the leaders in these communities to have the data they need to see the invisible: the exposure of their built environment to hazards, the vulnerability of those structures to particular stresses that these hazards may generate, and the impact that the failure of this infrastructure will have on residents of disaster zones and their ways of life. 

Without data, vulnerable peoples cannot make different choices. They cannot prepare for expected failures or make reasonable (often low-cost) investments in mitigating risks. They cannot pass building codes and zoning restrictions that create resilience in the face of expected adversity. They cannot compare their historical understandings of a risk (inherited with the wisdom of their society) with new understandings of a dynamic planet, where climate risks are changing historical understandings and opening societies to hazards that they have not previously faced.

## Data is not enough
That said, having data is not enough to create changes to behavior. To alter mental model of the risks across a population, the data needs to be available to everyone. It needs to be open--**legally open**, in terms of intellectual property licenses that permit it to be reused, repurposes, and redistributed without cost, as well as **technically open**, so that any software can open it, manipulate it, and save new analyses in open formats. More importantly, the data needs to be collected, analyzed, and curated by the people in the place facing the risks. Only through this process of having the data be available to all and curated by those who are potentially affected can behavior fully change.

## Open Data for Resilience: Building Open Data Ecosystems around Risk Management
Open Data for Resilience is a partnership of governments and international institutions that are building a deeper understanding of risk by sharing information about their exposure, vulnerabilities, and risk models.  This guide outlines practices that an ecosystem of peers is developing. All of the partners to this guide are working to build better data around the disaster risk management (DRM) cycle. Science agencies are developing better models of earthquakes, floods, droughts, tsunamis, volcanoes, and other hazards. Governments are cataloguing the exposure of their built environments to those hazards, at the same time that they are exploring the vulnerability of their populations to the direct effects of hazards and the indirect effects of changes to the built and social environments. And donors are looking at how best to help their clients target investments. 

## Who is the Guide for?
This guide is for those who wish to apply the open scientific method to developed a deeper understanding of the shared challenges of targeting investments in disaster risk management. It is aimed as much to government officials and community leaders as it is to staff of international organizations.

## Goals of the Guide
This guide intends to:

1.	Outline disaster risk management activities that have harnessed open data
2.	Explore shared challenges in using open data to increase resilience of societies who are facing high risks from natural hazards
3.	Create the first draft of a growing consensus around how to implement open data initiatives inside of client governments
4.	Provide a map of the work processes, partnerships, tools, and practices around OpenDRI
5.	Collate shared documents that can be used as templates for future implementations of OpenDRI.

## A Note on Style of this Guide
The guide is written in short snippets. This approach allows for several dynamics:

1. Easy Reading
2. Simplified Translation
3. Multiple Layouts: A3, A4, A5, and web.
4. Easy reference in the form of a growing body of knowledge

The guide also focuses on cataloguing the set of practices that have emerged over the management of open data, the curation of community maps, and the rise of a simplified version of risk assessment and communication that models potential impact of natural hazards on a given place. Each of these practices is set forth as a wiki: a module in a larger whole that individuals can edit as they learn and improve upon the original idea of OpenDRI.

## Collective Intelligence around Open for Resilience
The intention of this guide is to make the work itself a collective effort. It is seeded from the experience of a handful of partners, and given as a gift to the communities that are working in open data. Curators will continue to steward the content, ensuring that added knowledge reflects the community's shared experiences.
